---
title: 'Accelerating Python code with Numba'
date: 2023-02-12
permalink: /posts/2023/02/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - Python
  - Numba
  - Machine Learning
  - Numpy
  - Artificial Intelligence
---

Numba is an open-source numerical Python compiler that translates a subset of Python and NumPy code into machine code, executed on the <b>CPU</b>. It can be used to significantly speed up the execution of numerical computations, especially those that are performed in a loop, by compiling the code into machine code rather than interpreting it dynamically.

Numba provides a just-in-time (JIT) compiler, which means that it compiles the code on-the-fly, just before it is executed. This allows for the optimizations to be applied exactly where they are needed, rather than in advance. Numba supports a wide range of Python data types and functions, and it provides a simple, easy-to-use API for adding JIT compilation to existing code.

Numba allows you to write high-performance Python code by leveraging the power of JIT compilation. It can be used for a wide range of applications, from scientific computing and data analysis to machine learning.

### Example
Here is a simple example of how Numba can be used to speed up a calculation:

Consider the following function:

{% gist 0942c268114520e7c6a809d342ac9416%}
This function can be slow when working with large inputs. To speed up the calculation, we can use Numba to compile the function:

{% gist 6484e43949f063705115c6dbcef2d351%}
By adding the @jit decorator, Numba compiles the function into machine code, which can be executed much faster than the interpreted code. The compiled function can then be used just like any other Python function:

{% gist d7d0b9f60336d6c4cfe4271ad96ff697%}
The output of the above script is:
<div class="notice">
Elapsed (with compilation) = 0.1845691204071045
Elapsed (after compilation) = 1.4524459838867188e-05
Elapsed (No NUMBA) = 0.0002772068977355957
Ratio: 0.05239573747086498
</div>

In this example, we see a significant speedup in the execution time of the function. The same technique can be used to speed up other types of calculations, such as matrix operations, Monte Carlo simulations, and more.

### Reference
[1] [A ~5 minute guide to Numba](https://numba.pydata.org/numba-doc/latest/user/5minguide.html)