---
type: 'conference'
title: "Optimum Group Pixel Matching Strategies for Image Steganography"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/p007
date: 2021-09-01
venue: '2021 18th International ISC Conference on Information Security and Cryptology (ISCISC)'
paperurl: 'https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9720302/'
pdf: 'https://ijict.itrc.ac.ir/browse.php?a_id=498&sid=1&slc_lang=en&ftxt=1'
authors: 'Alireza Shahanaghi, Mohammad Ali Akhaee, Saeed Sarreshtedari, <b>Ramin Toosi</b>'
---

<h3> Authors </h3>
Alireza Shahanaghi, Mohammad Ali Akhaee, Saeed Sarreshtedari, <b>Ramin Toosi</b>

<h3> Abstract </h3>
LSB matching techniques are widely applied in the field of image steganography. In such algorithms, pixel values of each group must be changed in a way that a predefined function of the pixel group matches the secret digit. The notational system of the secret digits can be every desired number, as well as the size of the pixel groups. In order to preserve the quality of the stego image, it is desired to limit the changes in the pixel groups as much as possible. Therefore, optimum strategies must be found to match the function of the pixel group to the secret digit with the least possible imposed distortion in terms of mean square error. Having been recently found for pixel pairs, such strategies are found for the larger pixel groups by the proposed method in this paper. Among all the strategies providing the similar minimum MSE value, the one is chosen that helps to preserve the histogram of the original image. Optimum strategies found for all notational systems and pixel group sizes make the algorithm flexible for various application with different payloads, while it improves the similar techniques in terms of both MSE reduction and histogram preservation.