---
type: 'journal'
title: "Multimodal movie genre classification using recurrent neural network"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/p011
date: 2022-07-30
venue: 'Multimedia Tools and Applications'
paperurl: 'https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11042-022-13418-6'
code: 'https://github.com/Tinbeh97/MovieGenre'
---

<h3> Authors </h3>
Tina Behrouzi, <b>Ramin Toosi</b>, Mohammad Ali Akhaee

<h3> Abstract </h3>
Genre is one of the features of a movie that defines its structure and type of audience. The number of streaming companies interested in automatically deriving movies’ genres is rapidly increasing. Genre categorization of trailers is a challenging problem because of the conceptual nature of the genre, which is not presented physically within a frame and can only be perceived by the whole trailer. Moreover, several genres may appear in the movie at the same time. The multi-label learning algorithms have not been improved as significantly as the single-label classification models, which causes the genre categorization problem to be highly complicated. In this paper, we propose a novel multi-modal deep recurrent model for movie genre classification. A new structure based on Gated Recurrent Unit (GRU) is designed to derive spatial-temporal features of movie frames. The video features are then concatenated with the audio features to predict the final genres of the movie. The proposed design outperforms the state-of-art models based on accuracy and computational cost and substantially improves the movie genre classifier system’s performance.