---
type: 'journal'
title: "Fast and accurate spectral clustering via augmented Lagrangian"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/p013
date: 2022-09-16
venue: 'Journal of Computational Science'
paperurl: 'https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S1877750322002198'
authors: '<b> Ramin Toosi</b>, Mohammadreza Sadeghi, Hossein B Yazdi, Mohammad Ali Akhaee'
---

<h3> Authors </h3>
<b>Ramin Toosi</b>, Mohammadreza Sadeghi, Hossein B Yazdi, Mohammad Ali Akhaee

<h3> Abstract </h3>
Spectral clustering is one of the most popular general-purpose clustering methods due to its effectiveness and applications in various contexts. Spectral clustering, in its original form, is a two-step method. First, a new representation in which data points could be easily clustered is found. Then, a simple clustering algorithm like k-means is applied. In this paper, we propose a novel and highly accurate method for spectral clustering, called spectral clustering via augmented Lagrangian (SCAL). Specifically, we formalize the spectral clustering problem as a constrained optimization problem, which is challenging to solve due to the orthogonality constraint. This constraint ensures the orthogonality of the dimensions of the new representation where samples of a specific cluster are as close as possible to each other. We then use the augmented Lagrangian method to dispose of the orthogonality constraint and form a new unconstrained cost function. Finally, the new unconstrained problem is solved using the Adam optimization technique. The proposed method is compared to the state-of-the-art methods using synthetic and real-world datasets. Results show that SCAL significantly outperforms other methods in terms of accuracy.