---
type: 'conference'
title: "Brain-inspired feedback for spatial frequency aware artificial networks"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/p017
date: 2022-10-31
venue: '2022 56th Asilomar Conference on Signals, Systems, and Computers'
paperurl: 'https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/10052093'
authors: '<b>Ramin Toosi</b>, Mohammad Ali Akhaee, Mohammad-Reza A Dehaqani'
---

<h3> Authors </h3>
<b>Ramin Toosi</b>, Mohammad Ali Akhaee, Mohammad-Reza A Dehaqani

<h3> Abstract </h3>
Spatial frequency (SF) is a characteristic of an image that could dissociate course and fine shape information. Physiological and psychophysical studies widely investigated the role of various SF contents in image processing. Inspired by the primate brain structure, deep neural networks improved various computer vision tasks such as image classification. Physiological studies show that low SF (LSF) contents of an image could be processed faster to provide feedback to facilitate object recognition. However, this knowledge has not been considered in designing neural network structures. This study introduces SFNet, a new neural network structure that employs an LSF-based feedback mechanism. SFNet is a two-stream structure where one stream is used for LSF processing to provide feedback for image classification. The other stream combines the LSF-based feedback and the HSF processing to form the final decision. The role of the proposed LSF-based feedback in image classification is investigated utilizing the CIFAR100 dataset. The results show that SFNet improves the performance in the presence of SF filtering compared to the equivalent structures.