---
type: 'arxiv'
title: "Brand Visibility in Packaging: A Deep Learning Approach for Logo Detection, Saliency-Map Prediction, and Logo Placement Analysis"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/p023
date: 2024-03-04
venue: 'arXiv'
paperurl: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.02336'
code: 'https://github.com/Arhosseini77/Brand_Attention'
authors: 'Alireza Hosseini, Kiana Hooshanfar, Pouria Omrani, Reza Toosi, <b>Ramin Toosi</b>, Zahra Ebrahimian, Mohammad Ali Akhaee'
---

<h3> Authors </h3>
Alireza Hosseini, Kiana Hooshanfar, Pouria Omrani, Reza Toosi, <b>Ramin Toosi</b>, Zahra Ebrahimian, Mohammad Ali Akhaee

<h3> Abstract </h3>
In the highly competitive area of product marketing, the visibility of brand logos on packaging plays a crucial role in shaping consumer perception, directly influencing the success of the product. This paper introduces a comprehensive framework to measure the brand logo's attention on a packaging design. The proposed method consists of three steps. The first step leverages YOLOv8 for precise logo detection across prominent datasets, FoodLogoDet-1500 and LogoDet-3K. The second step involves modeling the user's visual attention with a novel saliency prediction model tailored for the packaging context. The proposed saliency model combines the visual elements with text maps employing a transformers-based architecture to predict user attention maps. In the third step, by integrating logo detection with a saliency map generation, the framework provides a comprehensive brand attention score. The effectiveness of the proposed method is assessed module by module, ensuring a thorough evaluation of each component. Comparing logo detection and saliency map prediction with state-of-the-art models shows the superiority of the proposed methods. To investigate the robustness of the proposed brand attention score, we collected a unique dataset to examine previous psychophysical hypotheses related to brand visibility. the results show that the brand attention score is in line with all previous studies. Also, we introduced seven new hypotheses to check the impact of position, orientation, presence of person, and other visual elements on brand attention. This research marks a significant stride in the intersection of cognitive psychology, computer vision, and marketing, paving the way for advanced, consumer-centric packaging designs.